
https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth

https://supabase.com/auth


https://github.com/supabase/supabase/tree/master/examples/oauth-app-authorization-flow


https://github.com/supabase/auth

Every Supabase project comes with a complete User Management system that works without any additional tools.

Including PostgreSQL's policy engine, for fine-grained access rules.
Auth

Use Supabase to authenticate and authorize your users.

Supabase Auth makes it easy to implement authentication and authorization in your app. We provide client SDKs and API endpoints to help you create and manage users.

Your users can use many popular Auth methods, including password, magic link, one-time password (OTP), social login, and single sign-on (SSO).

About authentication and authorization#
Authentication and authorization are the core responsibilities of any Auth system.

Authentication means checking that a user is who they say they are.
Authorization means checking what resources a user is allowed to access.
Supabase Auth uses JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) for authentication. For a complete reference of all JWT fields, see the JWT Fields Reference. Auth integrates with Supabase's database features, making it easy to use Row Level Security (RLS) for authorization.

The Supabase ecosystem#
You can use Supabase Auth as a standalone product, but it's also built to integrate with the Supabase ecosystem.

Auth uses your project's Postgres database under the hood, storing user data and other Auth information in a special schema. You can connect this data to your own tables using triggers and foreign key references.

Auth also enables access control to your database's automatically generated REST API. When using Supabase SDKs, your data requests are automatically sent with the user's Auth Token. The Auth Token scopes database access on a row-by-row level when used along with RLS policies.




Auth architecture

The architecture behind Supabase Auth.

There are four major layers to Supabase Auth:

Client layer. This can be one of the Supabase client SDKs, or manually made HTTP requests using the HTTP client of your choice.
Kong API gateway. This is shared between all Supabase products.
Auth service (formerly known as GoTrue).
Postgres database. This is shared between all Supabase products.
Diagram showing the architecture of Supabase. The Kong API gateway sits in front of 7 services: GoTrue, PostgREST, Realtime, Storage, pg_meta, Functions, and pg_graphql. All the services talk to a single Postgres instance.
Client layer#
The client layer runs in your app. This could be running in many places, including:

Your frontend browser code
Your backend server code
Your native application
The client layer provides the functions that you use to sign in and manage users. We recommend using the Supabase client SDKs, which handle:

Configuration and authentication of HTTP calls to the Supabase Auth backend
Persistence, refresh, and removal of Auth Tokens in your app's storage medium
Integration with other Supabase products
But at its core, this layer manages the making of HTTP calls, so you could write your own client layer if you wanted to.

See the Client SDKs for more information:

JavaScript
Flutter
Swift
Python
C#
Kotlin
Auth service#
The Auth service is an Auth API server written and maintained by Supabase. It is a fork of the GoTrue project, originally created by Netlify.

When you deploy a new Supabase project, we deploy an instance of this server alongside your database, and inject your database with the required Auth schema.

The Auth service is responsible for:

Validating, issuing, and refreshing JWTs
Serving as the intermediary between your app and Auth information in the database
Communicating with external providers for Social Login and SSO
Postgres#
Supabase Auth uses the auth schema in your Postgres database to store user tables and other information. For security, this schema is not exposed on the auto-generated API.

You can connect Auth information to your own objects using database triggers and foreign keys. Make sure that any views you create for Auth data are adequately protected by enabling RLS or revoking grants.

